what are the logs??
  Logs are detailed, textual records of events or activities generated by an application, service, or system. They provide contextual and chronological information 
  about what happened at a specific moment. Logs are typically unstructured or semi-structured text.

Key Characteristics of Logs:
 - Granular Detail: Each log entry is a snapshot of a specific event.
 - Chronological: Logs record events as they occur.

Examples of Logs:
Web Server Logs:
Log Message: 2024-12-17T10:15:00Z INFO 200 GET /api/v1/users
Describes a successful HTTP GET request to the /api/v1/users endpoint.

Application Logs:
Log Message: 2024-12-17T10:16:45Z ERROR Unable to connect to database: Connection timed out
Indicates an application error when attempting to connect to a database.

What are Metrics?
Metrics are quantitative measurements that provide a real-time, numerical summary of the state or performance of a system, application, or infrastructure. 
Metrics are structured and lightweight

Key Characteristics of Metrics:
Numerical and Structured: Metrics are expressed as numbers.
Aggregated: Often represent summaries like averages, counts, or rates.

Examples of Metrics:
CPU Usage:
Metric Name: cpu_utilization
Value: 75%
Tracks how much CPU is being utilized.

Request Latency:
Metric Name: http_request_duration_seconds
Value: 0.250s
Measures the time it takes to handle an HTTP request.

Error Rate:
Metric Name: http_5xx_errors_total
Value: 15
Counts the total number of 5xx server errors.

Key Differences Between Logs and Metrics

Logs:
 - Unstructured or semi-structured textual data.
 - Provides detailed context for troubleshooting.	
 - Debugging issues, auditing, event correlation.	

Metrics:
 - Structured, numerical data.
 - Tracks performance trends and health over time.
 - Real-time monitoring, alerting, capacity planning.

Metrics Alert You: Metrics show anomalies (e.g., high error rates, latency).
Logs Explain Why: Logs provide the details and context to debug and fix the issue.









































